hey everybody welcome back to nor the
lion place the binding of issac
afterbirth plus we got one challenge
remaining and our second like reunion
tour is gonna be complete here LFA p3
re6 I'm gonna hold our cuz it's ultra
hard and the the gist of voltar I wait
are there item rooms on ultra hard there
might not be item rooms I might be an
idiot and we also probably should not be
going to curse rooms right off the bat
okay either way we're gonna we held our
to start with ultra hard to refresh your
memory I believe now that I think about
it no item rooms definitely no HP has
ever dropped including spirit hearts so
that grossly changes the kinds of items
we want to see the number one thing I
think if you want to make an alter our
challenge work and I say this is an
expert a guy who's beating the challenge
what in time before you want to there's
two ways to do it now both of them
unfortunately essentially have no we
have no control over them I should say
it's really just what shows up but I
mean I don't know if there's a point to
using a bomb there to be honest we could
either get so strong we never get hit or
we could get defensively powerful so
that getting hit doesn't matter as much
you're not gonna drop a spirit heart
that makes me a little upset but you are
gonna drop a cube of meat I really think
that the the genesis of winning the
ultra hard challenge is like a little
bit of a a merit-based slot machine
merit based well it's a slot machine
because we're really relying on this
first deal with the devil to carry us
and merit-based because we need to get
the deal with the devil which requires
us to make it through a an Excel floor
without getting hits because we can't
really generate spirit hearts either I
feel like maybe with Book of Revelations
or something like that we could generate
them but we'll find out perhaps or we
won't I goes I guess those are the two
options that exist here little horn and
this is the hardest of all the little
horns this is the one that shoots the
bombs that do contact
to you so I'm just gonna try to stay
away as far as I can if I can get him to
go into the fires that he creates that's
excellent
apart from that though I'm not even
gonna use my own bomb I'm just gonna try
to keep him like as far away as is
plausible and if I can get him to hurt
himself then the world's our oyster
we're almost almost set here like five
more hits that could've hit me okay
we're safe
we got HP we got headless baby mi got
Guppies hairball neither of these are a
ten out of ten let me check this
ultra-hard have item rooms ultra-hard
all enemies of Champions curses no
hearts can be found there are totally
item rooms we just got a bunch of like
pretty bad seeds I guess that did that
didn't give us one to start with so we
should definitely go back and look for
those that would have been idiotic I
know you're gonna say didn't you just do
this challenge recently well with every
challenge being a little bit different
you know I'm trying to keep them all
straight up top but it doesn't always
happen that way small rock is I think if
not the best perhaps the only good setup
that we can get at this point from a
tempted rock technology zero is a good
item I say that because we can't get
spirit arts is what I mean and scapular
scapular won't do anything for us but
that's okay I actually think we have an
adequate start good damage good rate of
fire unfortunately pretty not amazing HP
because we went hard on the deals with
the devil I guess another approach we
could take is to just not take our deals
with the devil because we have curse of
the blind always but that doesn't sound
like me does it I don't think it turned
out badly like guppies hairball could be
excellent for us so we'll save a key and
get an item immediately the item is
Butterbean which is I'll just call it
it's useless I know what you're gonna
say but you have no spacebar items so
you can use it to deflect bullets okay
like one in 80 rooms this
might be used worth something but
compared to what we could have gotten
from like a random drop from an item
room it's pretty disappointing I think
either way though there's there's very
limited reason I think to be
disappointed by this run right now
there's a couple of things we should
really keep a close eye on though like
we definitely want to get read chess
wherever they're available come on
because red chests are a basically a
cost free way to potentially get guppy
items which as of right now is extremely
important I will use a bomb here magic
must be like amazingly good we didn't
get magic much but pushpin is a little
bit better than useless and that's that
says you know I don't want to dammit
with faint praise but that's about as
good as we can get there on that subject
so we'll continue to move on here
second item room also high on the
priorities list and by the way if you're
hoping for a good commentary in this
episode so am i but I would I would warn
you to prepare for an acquiescence and
that acquiescence is that Evanescence is
no we're not gonna go down that road but
wake me up inside please we're gonna
probably be focusing a lot on the
commentary because we more or less saved
the worst for last I think I mean it's
the last in the list as well except for
pong which we handled pretty easily but
15 cents I don't know there's no way to
purge these curses right like black
candle will not purge them for us
anymore uh we need to focus is what I'm
trying to say here was I get like you
know a sidetracked on different topics
over and over but we need to focus one
way or the other try to make this one
work stay vigilant I'm disappointed that
I took damage but our odds on this floor
of the deal with the devil were low and
it wasn't because of the tangents that I
was going
I took damage I just I got worn down
alligator took me down in my prime so
this floor stay vigilant if we could get
permanent piercing shots with static
tears that would be amazing a really
good rate of fire increase number two
you might think that I'm against number
two that's not the case though I'm I'm
mostly very for it
not gonna spend my whole life looking
for uh you know mushrooms to blow up
with number two but anything that gives
us some extra damage is pretty useful if
we can get like maybe glitter bombs
number two I'm wondering if we can make
something happen there you know it
endless consumables I'm kind of grasping
at straws because that's that's all we
got also oh no we got a scapular does
work I thought I'd drop the spirit heart
but it does not it uh it creates a
spirit heart out of nothing so actually
this is potentially really useful I know
you're saying this items been in the
game for ten years and you don't know
what scapular does it's always been an
item I've kind of shied away from for
worse there's no for better or worse
behind there's just for worse but we are
actually in a really really good spot as
a result of that I don't know what I'm
gonna do with it but what I will say is
that at the very least it raises our
odds of a deal with the devil I mean it
raises our odds of a deal with the devil
on this floor because we're pretty
unlikely to get to get hit at this point
I'd say I'm not not right now but
against them it's gotta be magic or mini
magic we're in a such a good spot now
but it raises our odds on this floor
because we're more unlikely to take
damage against the boss now is what I'm
trying to say which give allows us to
preserve that like 18% chance whereas
before we would be beholden to the the
traditional rules of trying to just not
get hit which we'll still try to do but
oh no I've gone cross-eyed again but now
rate of fire hasn't increased but our
damage is up in the eights there
which is good enough to be very very
pleased with mom's pearls is range which
I'll accept with static tears is not bad
but definitely I'm a little bit more
interested in improving in particular
our rate of fire yeah that's gonna
that's gonna hurt bad positioning I'll
own that one we could have placed
ourselves better the Dodge was
impossible but we could have been a
little bit more proactive about putting
ourselves in a spot to not get hit this
would be an amazing deal with the devil
chance if the items are good no deal
with the devil chance binky is a nice
tear upgrade though I don't know if I'd
say we've got like a great chance of
winning this because I don't know if you
ever have a great chance of winning
ultra hard but I think this is looking
real strong and kind of uniquely strong
for ultra hard as well we have great
damage deceptively great damage I might
add missing tear effects that can make
it like 11 out of 10 but we were
probably the solid like eight camp right
now he sounds about as surprised as I am
in phase 19 sense is a shop item you got
a try for a shop item a better space bar
item then Butterbean will be worth it
like all and of course there's good
passives as well like you know champion
belt but all of the traditional Isaac
know how kind of goes out the window for
this one really go why don't you just
wait for the next floor but it's not a
curse about oh right oh well why don't
you just you know try to get into Gaza
Renault right why don't you just lean oh
there's no way to purge these curses so
we we kind of have to make low
percentage plays and then Bank on more
of them than we would otherwise expect
coming through for us and I'm okay with
that I'm okay with rolling the dice here
cuz it's only got to work once oh there
was a an exit there okay we'll fight the
first boss
you know me well enough to know perhaps
that I want to fight both bosses right
here but I'll start by just fighting the
first one and then we'll remember that
like that was close
just up and to the left is where we
would expect to find the boss fights
we're not worried at all about boss rush
by the way box of stuff not a better
trinket another infested card or pill
the Justice card which does not give us
HP it's tempting but that's the wrong
play the right play and this is kind of
like my you know Luke Skywalker in the
forests of daga bah I know dag abuzz a
swamp but you know he goes into that
tree and fights like the holographic
Darth Vader this is my moment here I
have to slay myself to beat the ultra
hard challenge I have to not rush even
though this is the stupidest challenge
of all time and I mean that curse of the
maze plus curse of the lost is just the
dumbest and I'm not saying the people
who made it are dumb I'm saying the
setup as they've chosen it is dumb lord
knows I consider myself you know I'm
decently smart individual that doesn't
mean every decision I've ever made has
been smart that it's just infuriating to
not only not know where you're going but
be forced into making wrong turns as
well so I am kind of tempted to go to
this curse room but I'm gonna abstain
for now continue try to trying to find
the item rooms here and the shop for
that matter we've seen none of the item
rooms which means I actually have a high
degree of confidence that hopefully
we'll see some over here
the battery not good for what we're
presently using it for the Sun is
actually an amazing card for us though
it's not good for what we're presently
using it for but it's not bad if we can
get a better item like can we blow this
guy up maybe you'll give me 6 cents okay
no such luck
it's ok we got work to be done here to a
diamonds Joker card uh let's just use it
cuz we're gonna save the Sun card anyway
I I have to and I think that this has
done it actually you might look at this
and say you idiot what have you done I I
don't think that's the case I think
we've done it because now we can
actually regenerate HP we could have
done it with a scapular earlier but it
would have been tedious now we've got
like genuine fairly easy means to
improve our HP so multi-dimensional baby
was not worth what we paid for it I do
think it's not worth going to curse
rooms anymore either I don't know what
you're gonna say like the Sun card you
just you just squandered its usefulness
do I have to agree to disagree there I
think there's still a chance that the
Sun card could be could be important for
us just not yet obviously we're not
gonna be able to use it for mapping dude
I'm just see this is where I like to
kill the boy Jon let the man live we
gotta get over our bad habits this is a
floor we haven't seen either item room
yet we should explore we should be
diligent to a fault another Joker card
potentially honestly more useful than
the Sun card but the Sun card has value
later and I can't help but feel that the
Joker card kind of is also like the
spectre of my own demise
well we've found a new room but it
doesn't border anything but it does give
us a battery charge I think this is the
shop no it leads to the shop this could
be a secret room which might be a puzzle
piece here god I hate that
just take one the challenge would still
be as hard if you just remove one of
this stupid like oh you can't see where
you're going and you can't see where
you've been
like just take one of those away and
it's still annoying like you still troll
people holds up spork but like you're
kind of double dipping on the madness
here with this double curse silliness
and it is a little bit of frustration
talking but at the same time I'm jeez
people talk about you babe say I'm doing
me wrong doing you wrong but don't you
worry don't you worry don't you worry
worry cuz I'm right here right here
right here where I belong
I believe that was Oscar Wilde who said
that no I'm not leaving until I get both
item rooms I would love to leave but I
would hate to watch me go so we been
down this way 20 times so we know that
that's just like oh okay we know that
that leads to despair we've obviously
been in this room you've obviously been
in this room this is the curse room
don't you know what I'll do it you
you've you've broken my heart and you
forced me into coming into the curse
room I'll blow that guy up you got an
eye can see forever he'll pay very close
attention because I want to know where
those secret rooms are this is shop
access I think the secret rooms could
hold the key to getting to the item room
and maybe breaking this curse okay so
that was the curse of the law so I have
no idea where we are now
haha oh what fun we'll have so that's
another I can see forever pill which I
shouldn't have taken it in hindsight
we're not gonna use it because we have
to we're gonna store the stun the Sun
card instead got a second secret room
pinky I um honestly I think the 10%
chance of the piercing shots is actually
better but I think we could probably say
the goat of giving us the speed is even
better than that it's not a decision I
make lightly but the piercing shots are
great when they work but it they're
unreliable and low percentage this is
what I'm hoping for here yeah yeah this
is fine
kill greed get just enough money to have
given us the ability to buy the other
item now we did get enough so we're
gonna go back for it and now we're on
the other side of the map that was
apparently like impossible for us to
access otherwise I know it like
literally wasn't but if you'll allow me
to complain I'd appreciate it you guys
are not gonna give me spirit hearts
unfortunately it's okay the more rooms
the merrier dude because we also get
more charges for Satanic Bible so I
always say the more rooms the marion
came let's try this way instead then and
this is why this challenge is dumb in my
opinion like i know we're kind of
railing against it try not to be overly
dramatic or disrespectful here but we
spend like eight minutes just walking
around cool that's extremely challenging
it's challenging on like a personal
level is like a why am i subjecting
myself to this level and i will
appreciate the sense of you know
accomplishment once we finished it but
until we reached that moment I'm kind of
like please God spare me
blue baby's only friend is actually just
fine not not in not a negative word I
can say about this one we're not going
to use it to productively I think
probably focus more on the tears which
are already very high damage but
certainly not disappointed to see it now
I got to find the way back otherwise I'm
gonna be stuck forever now quietly goat
head there's like goat hoof just like
completely justified its existence there
because I could have easily taken damage
by it a little bit less speed so that
0.15 you know it makes a difference so
that's where we entered okay so let's
they probably join up back there I'm not
worried about money essentially at all
take me back to the shop if we just walk
right curse of the maze will eventually
take us back I'm sure now are we back at
the spawn or we back we're back at the
shop we buy this item converter I think
you still you do it with one even though
it's gonna mess up permanent polaroid
invincibility it's an important get
because this allows us to take a deal
with the devil without it costing us
three we're not gonna take a deal with
the devil here cuz we've already taken
them but we will potentially want to
take deals with the devil in the future
so the sun card also now is a little
closer to having merit although
admittedly not quite there yet
now we know where to go this is an
important one read mom probably the
easiest now an orbital will make pretty
short work of earth as long as we don't
get hit by our own bomb
easy easy easy okay the negative so we
died we don't have to worry about polar
item instability whoa but there is a
tinted rock which golden chest I guess
is the best outcome yeah okay down to
the next floor
we still beat boss rush or like made it
fast enough for boss rush which is
really just a testament to took curse of
the labyrinth basically making it almost
impossible to miss boss rush plus our
damage is good I guess okay so you
should really end it it's hard for me to
be the bigger man in this situation but
we should pretty much except here that
the longer it takes us to beat this
floor the better it is because it gives
us more charges on Satanic Bible which
gives us a much much greater chance to
win as is right now I think we're in a
good spot we also have a lot less
incentive to backtrack because we don't
have to worry about item rooms or shops
anymore but the temptation is still
there to try to go fast and going fast
gets a bad rap usually it's an
indication of strength not just
impatience but here it's really I was at
attempted we'll never know
going slow is more an indication of
uh-oh right we have no control over
being able to see where we're going on
this one no as long as if we die on this
run we die it's a hard challenge it's
not like we're throwing an easy win this
is definitely a ticket in the lottery
like this a good ticket as well like a
golden ticket like having a Golden Sun
up in the sky but if we got ourselves
killed on this run by using number 2 I'd
be real sad now it's not like we had a
choice whether or not to take number 2
all of our items or question marks that
being said I would have taken it
regardless so it's kind of an argument
taking in bad faith I think
battery charges please
I might not reroll my whole run because
I like this run that we've managed to
inherit for ourselves but you know we do
have a lot of keys and I'm I can be a
wild card sometimes let's see what we
get done I'm hip I'm with it have we
finished like a full charge of this yet
are we always just getting batteries I
like it that way
no oh my god now I'm like begin the
impossible step of like retracing your
steps impossible task I should say
batteries none good floor so far though
remember we don't actually have like
Excel floors after this point just go
straight down to Sheol I believe this is
uh I can see forever the other pills nah
that's uh that's for the birds man pills
that we already know are good I'll roll
with everything else you know why why
mess with it right now
fish ed it could be good but I'm gonna
stay away
mostly because the extra speed Trump's
the ability of us to get the occasional
extra fly I think okay so one boss dead
this guy I think we got him on the ropes
honestly our range is high enough that
we can abuse the size of the room to
make sure we don't get hit too often if
ever that guy can be a real jerk so I
think it's a testament to the strength
of this run i watch that so badly that
we're in a good spot here PJ's is a huge
get those spirit arts could potentially
like you know allow us to coast to the
end of the game now we still do have to
beat mega satan here not to mention you
know all of Sheol Satan himself etc etc
two hits
okay maybe not enough to take us to the
end of the game in hindsight but still
pretty good you got it you definitely
like do not have to and that's gonna do
nothing for us whoa that's gonna do
nothing for us but still so now the Sun
card is going to be worthless so what we
should do is very simple
find a room that's bad use the Sun card
to make it not so bad and then take your
time again the longer this goes on the
better it is for us
you got a like charged key or something
there
I would say that is decent use of that I
wish that we'd gotten the fourth one but
I understand the shoal here is the last
floor as well we go down to the dark
room we hope to get to copy items out of
our red chest probably won't life goes
on
then we fight mega Satan we're in a very
very good spot to make that mega Satan
fight turn out decently we have kind of
gotten a little bit slower in our
ability to kill rooms here as time has
gone on still rocking that 8.4 damage
from like the caves XL but as long as
we're patient
we got everything going here
didn't leave ruin the the challenge for
ourselves last time by taking the health
down pill at the very end is that what
happened it seems to ring a bell no I
don't understand I wanted to blow up the
door so we didn't have to finish this
fight because I think that it's just
unnecessary for us to be here so make it
worth my while please single bomb
that was pretty dumb that was ten times
dumber which is I think we had they got
the name for the movie uh what movie
Pride and Prejudice of course what do
you think I was talking about just hold
it together we have so little to
actually worry about if we just handle
this you know in the normal way it'll
also be such a good like cap off to our
reunions who are on these challenges to
finish every single one of them the
second time
yeah maybe a couple different attempts
per video on some of them required but
some of these challenges real hard man I
mean this one has got it right in the
name there
I do wish these floors could stop being
25 light years long that's another
problem for another day okay I mean this
is the secondary problem here is don't
really want to walk through the same
room 20 times just to figure out if it's
a dead end or not but I digress
I don't think about the fact that you're
still on the challenge think about the
fact that the challenge is almost over
don't cry because it's over smile
because it happened man
only using blue baby's only friend here
because this guy is a real jerk about
knock-back good good I'll call it if we
beat Satan without getting hit 100
percent chance we're gonna make it
through the the mega Satan fight okay
I'll downgrade us now to like a 95
percent chance remember this this
version of Satan cheats by the way he
moves oh I blew myself up
it's got to lay off that trigger finger
from time to time
no nur no no stop it it's okay we need a
couple of things right now to play
better and to have a little bit of faith
we have one luck we could do rooms I
don't think we want to please we can't
get we can't get spirit arts so we're
looking for guppy items pills are fine
if they're good it doesn't matter that
much
this could pretty easily be the dumbest
thing I've ever done but I'm gonna try
to ride it I want to get another I want
to get another item I want to get
another charge
no no battery charges
you're the battery charge boys you gave
me no charges well at this point we kind
of got a tough it out don't we that's
gonna hurt okay just I would say that
this was probably a bad call but Winston
Churchill said if you're going through
heck keep going and you know what that
guy had a lot of sick burns in his day
so I'm gonna treat that as some wise
words I think this is gonna be the last
room that I do though it's a little on
the easy side which is good if we get
like a battery charge an item good card
or pill nothing keep keep trying keep
trying we got this you may well disagree
with me but I think this is the right
thing to do and if I was rushing oh dude
no if I was rushing I would have just
bolted we'd be out of this run you know
ten minutes ago probably for worse but
maybe for better I'll admit what I'm
trying to do is do the right thing even
though it cost me a little extra time
here and perhaps ironically time will
tell if it's the right or the wrong
decision to begin with got a bomb one or
two more oh there's a secret room there
one or two more rooms and we get another
Satanic Bible charge here not see it
this is a bad one
these champions might actually be I was
gonna say that they're easier in
hindsight that looks a little ridiculous
now know how much HP is it plausible for
one jerk to have nothing dude this guy's
no problem
probably
just like some items please it is highly
a crime to give me all these rooms and
give me no HP well I guess we got the
charges but this is wait you can't give
me anything useful anyway give me
charges you can give me batteries you
can give me crystal ball you can give me
good cards I'm seeing the spirit are
it's like fall by the wayside here I'm
not happy money equals power that's a
very modest damage increase I'm the
luckiest man on planet earth right now
well played but also like extremely
lucky I'm Oh nurse save it save it save
it okay so that's that's our get out of
jail card here and it's certainly not
free
I was very close not a charged key
unfortunately fairly simple room okay
we're starting to pull something out
here I can no longer claim we got zero
items well we know there's gonna be like
yeah I was gonna say enemies down here
so you've already done this room it
stinks that was their creep well I think
we basically got to own it now we're
gonna get to three and a half what's the
right play do you try to fight mega
Satan or do you just you do you continue
down this path which this is not the
battery charge you continue down this
path which is quite dangerous could
yield benefits but also the more time
that goes on the more likely we are to
accidentally you know send ourselves a
head first into oblivion right
I think you try I think you try with
three and a half now you might be saying
NL you're pretty dumb for that no
battery the parasites okay you might be
saying NL you're pretty dumb for trying
to explore the floor and you may well be
correct but I had I had a strategy did
the strategy work I would say in
hindsight no it didn't unless the
parasite ends up being like 20 out of
ten somehow it's good but I don't know
if it's that good
so we're gonna be fighting a lot of
champion enemies in just a second
assuming they can become champions my
own bomb
we got a hope as I like just abandon the
idea of using number two we got a hope
that some of these champions drop a
battery charge that was an accidental
number two it worked out but don't let
that trick you into thinking it was
worth it okay you might think I'm stupid
for this but I think we've made it
through the first phase not catastrophic
ly badly
certainly I'm far from like outrageously
pleased but I'm also determined
determined to never do the ultra-hard
challenge again enemies with creep have
to go because I like cannot for the life
of me differentiate my creep from theirs
save me
that bomb exploded so quickly
that's brim and I get up pretty early in
the morning to catch me with one of
those brimmer's okay now we just smart
be smart gamble you know be smart
gambler know you know where these shots
come in just trust your instincts you
follow these angel statues 100 times
probably like actually 1,200 times not
Brimmer
now the final phase is no joke
did that bomb explode I didn't hear an
explosion
No
he's like barely wounded just stop
shooting every now and then can't afford
to compromise our ability to dodge
we have actually done it good lord
there was no reason for that who
Sampson feels healthy well hey thanks
for watching hope you guys enjoyed the
episode if you think click the like
button upside a great deal of course
subscribe you got to see more of the
future but for now thanks for watching
and I'll see you next time put that on
the ultra hard challenge